# 20.1.03 Demo: Mouse Events
```
20.1.03 Demo: Mouse Events
```
> **Outcomes:**
> 
> * **1.2.1 Identify the types of subprograms supported by the environment:** Event-driven procedures (`mousePressed`, `mouseDragged`) are built-in modular components.
> * **3.6 Debug programs using appropriate techniques.**


> [!IMPORTANT]
> After this lesson you will do 20.1.03 Practice: CT 1 in D2L
>


**Things to focus on:**
* Using **event functions** to update variable
 *  this is a subtle hint you can't draw in the event functions


> [!NOTE]
> ##  TL;DR
> **Special User interaction functions**
> | Function / Object |Purpose                                                              |
> | ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | `mousePressed()`  | Get called once when mouse is pressed    |
> | `mouseReleased()` | Gets called when mouse button is released |
> | `mouseDragged()`  | Allows dragging the circle with the mouse while button is held       |





###  Starter code:
* How do you use your mouse to move the circle when you click your mouse


```javascript
let sprite = {
 cx:300,
 cy:200
}


function setup() {
 createCanvas(400, 400)
}




function draw(){
 background(222)
  circle(200, 200, 20)


}


function mousePressed() {
 //notice I do not draw the circle in here
 // mousePressed can ONLY change variables


}
```


### TODO:


Make a new function `mouseDragged` as you drag your mouse the circle size gets bigger, farther to the right = a bigger circle.


```javascript




function mouseDragged() {


}
```


### New Example: Does This Work?


It looks like nothing new happens after the first circle, but really, we’re just drawing the same circle in the same spot. How can we tell if `mousePressed()` is actually being called?


```javascript
function setup() {
 createCanvas(400, 400)
}
function draw(){
 background(222)
}


function mousePressed() {
 circle(200, 200, 20)
}
```




### answer: Printing to the Console


add a `print()` statement


```javascript
function setup() {
 createCanvas(400, 400)
}


function mousePressed() {
 print("mousePressed was called!", mouseX, mouseY)
 circle(200, 200, 20)
}
```
Each time you click, look at the **console** You’ll see a new message each time `mousePressed()` runs. That way you know that your function is working, even if something is broken.


> [!TIP]
> * `print()` is **for you**, the programmer, not really for the user.
> * Use it to **check what’s happening**, find bugs or to see what is inside of variables.
> * Remove it when your program works correctly.
>
> ---
### Checkpoint


Which of the following is **true**?


* [ ] It’s okay to use the console to talk to the user.
* [ ] You should leave `print()` statements in your final version.
* [ ] Using `print()` helps you find and fix bugs.
* [ ] You should use the canvas to display programmer-only messages.


> [!NOTE]
> ### INFODUMP:
> **Top-Level Code**
> Code that isn’t inside any function runs **once** when the program starts.
> That’s called **top-level code**.



### New Example: Light and Dark Circles
Now that we can use events, we can do **a lot with a little math**.
Opacity, colour, and size can all change based on where you click
```javascript
let opacity = 255;


function setup() {
 createCanvas(400, 400);
  textAlign(CENTER);
 textSize(16);
}


function draw() {
 background("lightblue");
 fill("black");
 text("Click near the top for light circles", 200, 50);
 text("Click near the bottom for dark circles", 200, 350);


 fill(0, 0, 128, opacity); //r,g,b,transparency
 circle(mouseX, mouseY, 50);
}


function mouseDragged() {
 //divide mouseY by 4 so the opacity stays between 0-100
 opacity = mouseY / 4;
}


```


**Why divide by 4?**
Because our canvas is 400 pixels tall, and opacity should be between 0-255.
* Dividing by 4 keeps things mostly in range. If we wanted we could use the `map()` function
