# 20.1.01 Lesson Multiple Parameters
```
20.1.01 Lesson Multiple Parameters
```
---
**Outcomes:**

* **3.3.1 Use appropriate parameters for importing data:** Use multiple parameters to allow a single subprogram to accept several inputs, increasing flexibility and reuse.
* **3.6 Analyze and eliminate logic and runtime errors.**

---

> [!IMPORTANT]
>After this lesson you will do `20.1.01 Test Functions and Parameters` in D2L

**Things to focus on:**

* **Parameters** are variables listed inside the `()` of a function definition.
* **Arguments** are the actual values passed into the function when it is called.
* Functions can be defined with no parameters, but they still require parentheses `()` when called.


## Parameters and Arguments Must Match

### Example 

```javascript
//this is DEFINING A FUNCTION
function drawCircledNumber(number, colour) {
  fill(colour);
  circle(200, 200, 150);
  fill(0);
  textSize(100);
  textAlign(CENTER, CENTER);
  text(number, 200, 200);
}

function setup() {
  createCanvas(400, 400);
}

function draw(){
  background(220);
  drawCircledNumber(99, 'yellow')// this is CALLING a function
}
```

You can see that we have **two parameters**  `number` and `colour`.
So when you call the function, we **must** provide **two arguments**.

When we call `drawCircledNumber(99, 'yellow')`, JavaScript sets:

* `number = 99`
* `colour = 'yellow'`

Then it runs the body of the function and draws the circle and number.

---

## Wrong Number Mismatch

What happens if we have the **wrong number of arguments**?

### Example

```javascript
function drawCircledNumber(number, colour) {
  fill(colour);
  circle(200, 200, 150);
  fill(0);
  textSize(100);
  textAlign(CENTER, CENTER);
  text(number, 200, 200);
}

function setup() {
  createCanvas(400, 400);

}

function draw(){
  background(220);
  drawCircledNumber(99)// this is CALLING a function
}

```

This function **expects two parameters** (`number, colour`),
but we only provided **one argument** (`99`).



### Checkpoint

What happens when you run the code above?

* [ ] The code runs fine and draws a 99 but no circle.
* [ ] Nothing happens.
* [ ] An error is shown in the Console.
* [ ] The code asks the user to provide the missing colour argument and uses that colour.

  <details><summary>Answer</summary> 
  
  An error is shown in the Console. 

  **Explanation:**
  In JavaScript, missing arguments become `undefined`.
  So `fill(undefined)` breaks the drawing because `undefined` is not a valid colour.
  </details>

---

## Wrong Order Mismatch
This time, we have two arguments, but **in the wrong order**:

```javascript
//this is DEFINING A FUNCTION
function drawCircledNumber(number, colour) {
  fill(colour);
  circle(200, 200, 150);
  fill(0);
  textSize(100);
  textAlign(CENTER, CENTER);
  text(number, 200, 200);
}

function setup() {
  createCanvas(400, 400);
}

function draw(){
  background(220);

  drawCircledNumber('yellow',99)// WRONG order
}
```


### Checkpoint 

What error do you see in the Console when you run the code above?
* [ ] `'yellow' is not a number.`
* [ ] You did something wrong. Please try again.
* [ ] `circle.fill` should be colour.
* [ ] No error.


  <details><summary>Answer</summary>  
  'yellow' is not a number.

  **What happened?**
  When we defined the function, we said the parameters are `(number, colour)`,
  but we called it as `('yellow', 99)`.

  So JavaScript thinks `'yellow'` is the **number** and `99` is the **colour** 

  The code fails because `99` is not a valid colour.
  The real problem, though, was that our **arguments were out of order**.
  </details>

---

## Functions With No Parameters

You can also make functions with **no parameters**,but you still need the parentheses `()` in both the definition **and** the call.


### Bad Example 

This fails, but why?

```javascript
function drawCircles() {
  fill('green');
  circle(100, 150, 80);
  fill('yellow');
  circle(200, 100, 70);
}

function setup() {
  createCanvas(400, 400);
  drawCircles  //ouch
}
```

<details><summary>Fixed</summary>  

```javascript

function draw(){
  background("skyBlue)
  drawCircles() // ohhh look at me
}

```
</details>

### Checkpoint 

What happens when you run the code above?

* [ ] You did something wrong. Please try again.
* [ ] No error is shown, but nothing happens.
* [ ] No error occurs, and two circles are drawn.
* [ ] `drawCircles` call requires parentheses.


  <details><summary>Answer</summary>  
  No error is shown, but nothing happens.

  **Explanation:**
  `drawCircles;` *references* the function but never *calls* it.
  The computer sees it but doesn’t run it, you need the parentheses `()` to execute it.


  </details>
