# 20.1.10 ASSIGN Trivia
```
20.1.10 ASSIGN Trivia
```
> **Outcomes:**
> 
> * **2.5 Analyze and evaluate algorithms using test data.**
> * **3.3.2 Apply local variables to avoid scope errors.**
> * **3.6 Eliminate syntax, runtime, and logic errors.**

---

This assignment is not about solving a hard problem. Instead, it is designed to get you to read existing code that uses functions and figure out how it works.
* In other words, it is about getting comfortable with functions that use parameters before you have to write them yourself.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Load the code and We will fix the `keyPressed()` together to make it neater with functions.


---
## Part 1: Familiarize Yourself with the Code
- Read through the code carefully to see how it is structured.  Look carefully at how the question() and marking() functions are written.
- Test it by answering the first question in a variety of ways.  You will discover that the displayScore() function produces an error.


---
## Part 2: Improve the displayScore Function (10%)
-  Something is broken and needs to be fixed.  Change it so that it prints the `sc` variable. 
   - Remember that `sc` is the local variable that stores the score inside the displayScore function. 


- Alter or add textSize() lines so that the 'Correct' message is printed in large text and the score is printed in somewhat smaller text.
- Change the text formatting to use string templates instead of using the `+` to join strings and variables.
 

---
## Part 3: Change the Theme
- Change the first question to be about a movie/game or some other trivia topic.
- Add a scene ZERO that introduces the trivia game.


---
## Part 4: Adding the Other Questions
For the rest of this assignment, you are making new functions and calling them in the keyPressed() function.


- Add 4 additional questions by adding to the keyPressed() function. Each is worth 20%:
  - For a base level, each Question should be its own function.
  - For an advanced level, have only 1 Question funcitons that uses parameters to change your options.    
- Base each on the code exactly as written for question 1.
- Each question should have 3 marking levels (IF… ELSE IF… ELSE)
- For the Partially Correct IF statement code, you must use a few different String Functions for full marks (see String Methods section)
   - For a base level a partially correct mark will have one option
   - For an advanced level the partially correct mark will have 2 or 3 options.


---
## Clean Code:
You will be marked on your code formating. Make sure it is clean
- change all `text` calls to use string templates
- add comments saying end of `} ` to help with debugging
- Make sure all tabbing is consistent
- Add 1 empty line between code blocks
- Add 2 empty lines functions


## String Methods
- Within your IF statements, you must use all of the following String Methods:
 - `.includes`
 - `.startsWith`
 - `.endsWith`
 - `.charAt`
   - https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_obj_string.asp.


Remember that we used all of these in our Band Name Analyzer example.



---
> [!TIP]
>  Hint
> - Remember your `if()` statements can have  or `||`
> - `toLowerCase()` will do just that. Can help reduce user error.
> - `trimEnd()` and `trimStart()` will help reduce user error.
>
>   
```javascript
let scenenum = 1;
let score = 0;




function setup() {
createCanvas(600, 400);
background(0, 255, 0);
textSize(20);
}//end setup



function draw() {
   question(scenenum);
}//end draw

function keyPressed() {
   if (key === '1' && scenenum === 1) {
       scenenum = 2;
       //--------------- Start of code to copy -------------------------------
       let answer = window.prompt("Who is the best teacher");
      
       if(answer === "Mrs. Krabappel"){
           score += 2;
           displayScore("Fully Correct", score);
       } else if (answer.includes("k")){  //this must be altered for each question you add
            score += 1;
           displayScore("Partially Correct", score);
       } else{
            displayScore("Wrong", score);
       }


       //--------------- End of code to copy -------------------------------


   }//end 1


   else if (key === '2' && scenenum === 2) {
       scenenum = 3;


   }//end 2





}//end keyPressed


function displayScore(correct, sc){
   //background box
   fill(255, 255, 0);
   strokeWeight(3);
   stroke(0);
   rect(10, 270, width-20, 120);

   fill(0)
   noStroke();
   textSize(10);
   text(correct + "!", 50, 315);
   textSize(10);
   text("Current score: "+ a , 50, 360);
}


function question(questionNum) {
   //background box
   fill(255, 255, 0);
strokeWeight(3);
   stroke(0);
   rect(10, 10, width-20, 250);

   //text
   fill(0)
   noStroke();
   text("Question " + questionNum, 50, 100);
   text("Press the " + questionNum + " key to answer this question", 50, 160);
}//question
```
