# 20.3.10 ASSIGN JSON Maze
```
20.3.10 ASSIGN JSON Maze
```
Your goal is to make a maze for your  sprite to navigate
When you make this aim for a maze a 5 year old can do.


### **Step 1: Create Your Map JSON**


Make a new file called `map1.json`.


It should describe:


* The **tile layout** using the x and y coordinates for different types of tiles.
* The **tile size** and **map width/height**.




---


### **Step 2: Load Your Map**


Use `loadJSON()` in an async function to load your map data.




---


### **Step 3: Draw the Map with Tiles**


Use tiles from [this site](https://opengameart.org/content/tilesets-5).


* Download and choose at least **2 tile images**
* Load them in an async function
* Use loops to draw your map
   * all the information about drawing your walls needs to come from the `JSON` `x,y,w,h`
   * the only thing not located in the `JSON` is your tiles, that can be called directly in the sketch






---


### **Step 4: Load and Draw Your Player Sprite**


Create a `JSON` file called `player.json` that contains all the information you need for your player.
* the only thing not located in the `JSON` is your sprite image, that can be called directly in the sketch




---


### **Step 5: Move the Player and check for collisions**


You can use the `movePlayer` and `checkcollisions` from the lesson
---


### **Step 6: Higher Level 80%+**

#### Pacman-ish
1. add food particles with solid colours on your map.
2. use `get(0)` and a check for collisions function
  * When you run over the food, it gets eaten, your points go up and the food disapears.
3. Look at the p5 refference for `arc` and use their "pacman" example to animate your sprite.


#### More Maps:  `map1.json` and `map2.json`
1. Add a button that lets you **switch maps** while playing.
   * map 1 is easy, map 2 is hard
2. Add in a Goal, if your sprite reaches it display a winner message


**Optional**
Try adding **different tiles** (grass, water, lava, etc.) and handling them differently in your code.
   * grass might be full speed
   * lava is death
   * hill might be half speed
